Now to our "NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye
that may be of interest to
you, too.
Allegiances to sports teams
run deep in many families, but
one Virginia man decided to
let the nation's Major
League Baseball franchises
make their own pitch
for his son's affection.
The "NewsHour"'s Julia
Griffin explains.
PETE VAN VLEET, Father:
This photo is good for
two Astros tickets.
JULIA GRIFFIN: So, when are
you going to redeem that?
PETE VAN VLEET: If it were
up to me, we're having such a
good year, we'd go this season,
but that would be
unfair for Jack.
(CROSSTALK)
JULIA GRIFFIN: Right, because
he wouldn't remember it.
PETE VAN VLEET: He
wouldn't remember it.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Jack
wouldn't remember a Houston
Astros game because he
was just born in February.
And while his father, Pete Van
Vleet, is a lifelong Astros
fan, he wants Jack, like his
5-year-old daughter, Madeline,
to choose his own allegiance.
PETE VAN VLEET: I didn't want
to force anything on my own
kids, especially in the realm of
baseball, so I let them
pick their own team.
JULIA GRIFFIN: A few seasons
ago, Madeline picked Detroit,
reasoning that Tigers are
fierce.
PETE VAN VLEET: A friend of
mine asked when, after Jack
was born, is he going to be an
Astros fan?
I said, no, he can root
for whomever he wants.
And then it dawned on me, why
not let the teams have a say?
JULIA GRIFFIN: When
spring training got under
way, Pete, who, for the
record, is an employee
of PBS, mailed letters to all
30 Major League Baseball teams.
The query was
simple, but serious.
PETE VAN VLEET: "I want to
give you, the Pittsburgh
Pirates, the San Francisco
Giants, the Washington
Nationals, a chance to make
your own case as to why my
son should pick your team to
root for.
I must tell you, I do
not take this lightly.
Friends may come and go.
Political affiliations and
beliefs in higher powers may
change, but one's team is one's
team forever."
JULIA GRIFFIN: It wasn't long
before responses, or, arguably,
bribes, began to arrive.
From the Milwaukee Brewers, a
letter and autographed baseball.
PETE VAN VLEET: From Matt
Garza, their ace pitcher.
JULIA GRIFFIN: From
the Miami Marlins.
PETE VAN VLEET: "Billy
the Marlin, our mascot
is goofy, adorable and
is blatantly superior
to all other Major
League mascots."
So, if he's fishing
for a team, the Marlins
are a good one there.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Pittsburgh
Pirates president Frank
Coonelly wrote a personal note.
PETE VAN VLEET: "The Pirate
ship has plenty of room on it
for a young fan from Ashland,
Virginia."
JULIA GRIFFIN: Nationals
team manager Dusty Baker
sent pint-sized team
gear and an invitation.
PETE VAN VLEET: "We want to
get you started by inviting
you to our ballpark to catch a
game, visit the field
during batting practice,
and, of course, a
sharp outfit for you to
start your collection."
JULIA GRIFFIN: While the Chicago
Cubs sent an array of 2016
world champions memorabilia
and made a play for Madeline.
PETE VAN VLEET: "I know big
sisters have a lot of influence
over their little brothers,
so maybe you can help us
convince Jack to be a Cubs fan."
Why not?
That's very smart of them.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Not only did
they send all the swag, but
they are going after the sister
vote as well.
PETE VAN VLEET: Exactly.
JULIA GRIFFIN: A total of 13
teams have replied so far, but
have any knocked their argument
out of the park?
Is 4-month-old Jack persuaded?
There is a smile.
PETE VAN VLEET: Maybe that's it
JULIA GRIFFIN: Well,
for now, no comment.
Jack is just enjoying the
pennant pursuers' pursuit.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Julia Griffin in
Ashland, Virginia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just shameless.
And I like the team that went
after -- I guess it was the
Cubs, who thought about the big
sister.